---
layout: post
title: Thoughts on CS4All
date: 2016-6-02
---

This year, the Chicago Public Schools voted to approve CS4All—a Computer Science education program for K-12 students, which makes it mandatory for all students to take at least one Computer Science course before they graduate.

In today’s job market, it’s no wonder why Computer Science is becoming more and more important. While many industries are still laying off workers, technology is having no such problem. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Computer and IT industry is expected to grow by nearly 500,000 new jobs by 2024.

Inside the tech community, CS4All is considered to be a huge step forward. However, something about mandatory Computer Science education makes me a little uneasy.

First of all, CPS (and other urban districts like it) doesn’t have the best track record for equipping teachers for success. In some cases, teachers don’t have enough desks, books, and basic supplies for all of their students. Teachers frequently go on sites like Donors Choose to request pencils, kleenex boxes, wipes, and hand sanitizer for their classroom. With another round of impending budget cuts in 2016, it’s pretty apparent that adding Technology to the curriculum will come at the expense of existing programs—particularly Fine Arts programs.

As a newly-minted developer, technology may have changed my life for the better, but it’s not going to save us.

I think it’s natural to want to push students towards a career that will provide them with a hopeful future. After all, I wish someone had done the same for me a little sooner.

However, if our primary goal is preparing every student for a career in technology, we will always fail. The bigger problem, I think, is that we don’t give them enough choice in the matter.

I remember the first meeting I had with my high school guidance counselor before freshmen year. Once all the required courses were on my schedule, she handed me the course catalog and told me to choose one. In this moment, I felt overwhelmed, because I wanted to take French and choir and art and web design. I was interested in so many things, but I had to choose one.

I chose choir, and I never regretted it. I excelled at it, and in a dusty cabinet in the very back hallway of my high school, there are multiple music awards with my name on it. I went to college and majored in music education, and became a fine arts teacher. That one decision I made when I was 13 years old determined the course of my life until I was 26.

But I never did get to study art or computers or web design. And sometimes I wonder how my life would have been different if I had.

The problem, I believe, is that we put ourselves in career-shaped boxes.

I put myself in a fine arts shaped box, and never ventured outside of it until I started learning to code at the age of 26. I never believed I had a logical bone in my body, and discovering that I was good at programming was as surprising to me as it would be to jump into a pool for the first time and beat Michael Phelps in a race.

On the other hand, my brother the Computer Science major always knew he was good at programming, but he now sneaks out of bed at night to play the piano.

I could go on—there are countless stories about people who always believed they were meant to do one thing, but discovered later that they were also good at many other things.

I think CS4All is a great idea. But if additional technology courses come at the expense of existing programs or a student’s ability to choose them, I think we are doing the students a disservice.

So, how can we integrate technology into the curriculum in a way that it enriches other subject areas? How can we equip schools to provide a variety of programs, and empower students to try more than one?

I don’t know the answer to this question yet, but over the next few months, I hope to spend some time working to figure it out.
